0. The lack of cups at the refreshment points was disappointing they seemed less organized than usual  
1. no answer given 
2. no answer given 
3. Parking not enough 
4. Cyclist not giving way to pass 
5. I finished my ride at around  Just before the  hour cutoff and was expecting a medal Was sent from pillar to post and ended up spending an hour in the queue with everyone else People train hard and it really sucks when they cant go home with something to show their families after such a grueling ride Please make sure the medal mix up never happens  I only got to spend  minutes in the beer tent with fellow racers and share in the camaraderie Would be great if you could open it for an extra  minutes or so post the race cutoff So everybody can get to feel the gees  
6. the wind The first  km  
7. Too much hills for km LOLIts a pity the km starts so late 
8. No issues 
9. Terrible goodie bags also preferred the mat to mat timing The guy starting us never said our group name he should emphasize b before I knew the group had started The expo was just catering for rich elite cyclists and what happened to all the different eating places and beer garden wine tasting etc Nice coffee spots 
10. no answer given 
11. no answer given 
12. I think that the start needs some polishing  
13. Everything Great 
14. no answer given 
15. Sadly riders still cross wheels  its across all groups and the number one reason for crashes Its something I feel could be addressed in the lead up with video education  
16. Congestion getting into the start area 
17. Time recording system not  accuratetime did not agree with my computer 
18. Basic cycling rules like not passing on the left of riders should be given and encouraged with participants either in their race packs or even if marshalled along the way The participants should be given basic etiquette rules which should also make the race safer The starting at the Fort was not great Vagrants have taken over that area and it is not a great starting spot any longer 
19. What happened to Chariots of Fire at the top of Suikerbossie 
20. PRICE OF ENTRYE bikes getting inbetween normal bikesMore toilets in starting areapen needed 
21. Cannot fault it 
22. my Brother  I could not ride together because they would not change his start time 
23. Think some of the seeding is a little wrong coz people seeded higher than me were pushing their bike by Wynberg  
24. Die event atmosfeer is ongelooflik 
25. It is a bit expensive  
26. Nothing  
27. Was a bit windy 
28. The overcrowding of the after event tent was frustratingWe left soon after arriving  
29. Open seeded Groups A B  C to big  road works  
30. I loved every minute of it No regrets 
31. Nothing 
32. Non 
33. Try get better sponsors on board for the goodie bag  
34. Nonewould like to start earlier next time with better qualify time  
35. GEEN klagtes nie 
36. The wind 
37. Liked everything 
38. Much liked everything awesome event  
39. Norhing 
40.  The expo has become an extended Rapid Sport shop and too many unrelated products to cycling like massage and supplement items We want to see the new bikes from the importers and the gadgets from manufacturers Only saw Lyne and Cabal Giant was more about their battery storage Where was Cape Cycle Systems Omnico JJ Ryder Dave Mercer and other SA frame makers should be invited The toilets at ethe start always seem to be inadequate and we left in batch A but most in teh start shutes were not useable very unsanitory We finished at h and there was not enough space provided under the tents for us with most of the field still coming in Organisers made too little provision 
41. Two minutes before the gyn on the km start a group of ladies in Yellow kit was arranged right in front Their race numbers were FG etc It upset the geniune front row and ended in a screaming match between some races 
42. no answer given 
43. That my mom who did it for the first time did not receive a medal as there was not enough 
44. It is really a very heartwarming experience even afterwards at the Waterfront with a beer and all the bicycles 
45. Too crowded 
46. Done it for  times Would love an earlier starting time 
47. Water points were excellent 
48. Ebikes How can you guys struggling to avoid cramping going up Suikerbossie and at the same time a guy screaming up the right hand side of the shouting keep left 
49. Suikerbossie With a bit more practice I will definitely enjoy that one more 
50. There was no out side toilets for the family that came to support at the starting  
51. The crowded  merchandise area at registrationAlso only once a year 
52. The start alongside the castle was not great as the area stank of sewerage With all the squatters using the moat as a toilet it was like starting next to a sewerage works Did not give a good impression to our out of town and overseas visitors Needs to be sorted out for the next event 
53. Too many e bikes 
54. Wind 
55. Wind 
56. Nothing 
57. no answer given 
58. There were not enough toilets at the start by far before entrying you batch penne   
59. Nothing  
60. Starting procedure is confusing Preferred the old method prior to the Parade start 
61. Too many people in A seeding 
62. no answer given 
63. no answer given 
64. No communication about collecting  and  medals Event is getting expensive aswell 
65. My seeding of BThe wind   
66. no answer given 
67. The number of ebike riders that assisted pushedpulled the other cyclists to better their times as well as them shouting at other riders to make way for them 
68. As an entrant that is not familiar with Cape Town it was daunting to figure out where to park My car has a roof mounted bike rack so it was very awkward when I had to stop on the road and take my bikes off my roof before driving into the CTICC Parking  When leaving the CTICC parking it was not clear what route should be taken to get to the start Luckily I could ride with someone who had ridden the route before Only after a few turns was the route made clear by the road blocks 
69. THE FEW PATCHES OF BAD ROAD 
70. The camaraderie the build up the beer tent afterwards and all around positive experience  
71. I didnt have problems 
72. The wind But its out of our hands and gives riders a challenge  
73. Smelly toilets in the start pen  
74. Motorbikes on the root 
75. Some ebike riders SERIOUSLY suckDespite your instructions for these not to race normal bikes on the uphills I had two near crash events with ebikes racing up the hill crisscrossing through the trafficI do support allowing ebikes but can you not please add some mechanism to take these irresponsible people off route or ban them from future eventsAs usual its the few that make it horrible for the many 
76. nothing 
77. Everything was great  
78. no answer given 
79. The starting area was a bit cramped  
80. None  
81. All good 
82. no answer given 
83. The start shoots can be a bit chaotic with people that have later starts crowding the entrance to the shoots making it hard for people with earlier time slots to get in  
84. Toilets were disgusting are the start and at Jubilee Square So many out of order at the start no one cleaning them This is my first year experiencing this at the Cape Town Cycle Tour Maybe look at having gender spesific ones 
85. Nothing  
86. Not enough toilets at the start 
87. Chaos at the starting line with far too few toilets 
88. no answer given 
89. All good 
90. no answer given 
91. no answer given 
92.  Group C was sent out before Group B at the Start Line A few hundred metres from the Finish Line we were told to stop by a Marshall in order to let traffic through This happened on the Corner of Strand and Adderley StreetsMy son and I were well clear of any riders around us but the unexpected stop saw a huge bunch of riders having to stop and then a sprint towards the finish line in Riebeek Street with very little space to maneuver The stench of human excrement as we lined up to start in Castle Street 
93. My start time 
94. Race packs were not well stocked 
95. The start area Chaotic outside chutes as area was restricted  too small and too many people trying to find chutes not easy to access chute with all the cyclists mingling in a small area previous years the process was much better  
96. The wind 
97.  The entry fee is extremely steep but I suppose that the cost to run such a big event is very high The thing that was very evident that it is becoming out of the reach of the normal person working person in SA to enter the race   The Goodie bag compare to other big races are shameful  I also think the medal is a down grade compare to previous years but just my opinion other then that nothing else 
98. Everyone did not get a medal and everyone did not get a goodie bag a the expo 
99. E bikes need their own race as they pose a danger to experienced riders passing right and then just dive to the left without even looking 
100. Happy with everything 
101. Struggling women alone on the road with my bicycle without any helpassistance being available before Simons Town There was no road assistance in the nearly  minutes I was struggling and everyone just passed me 
102. O 
103. Consideration to be given to extending cut off times for km event particularly relevant for younger riders social riders 
104. Weather 
105. None everything was amazing 
106. no answer given 
107. The fact that Club  was removed and replaced is very very sad So many spectators recognises the Club  but the replacement  jursy does not earn the same respect from the supporters I would like to see the Club  jursy to be brought back The green jursy can still be in place for races  to  but my proposal is to keep the tradition with the Club   
108. There wasnt enough shade or tents for people to sit in afterwards The beer tent was also a crazy place and I suggest that there should be more than one beer tent next year The ques for the food trucks were also very long  
109. Die Cape Argus fietstoer bly maar net die Uniekheid van self en die roete sowel die atmosfeer en dat ons die roete vir ons self het vir n dag is die grootste geskenk van vreugde om ons self net aan die omgewing kan gee vir die vreugde en genot sowel die atmosfeer van die toeskouers 
110. cant think 
111. The final results displayed better in Racetec Too few specials at the Expo 
112. The  and  cutt off times was to soon They can move it by  minutesI just missed the cut off by  and  mark and still manage to finish at At  they already packed up where they must wait for  No medal no water and powerade at the finish lineThere is big running events  better it is a big thing until the last cut off time 
113. Not enough medals Beer garden stopped serving drinks reasonably early considering the riders that had a late start and therefore finished later Took away from the whole experience 
114. no answer given 
115. The number of men standing next to the road urinating in the open while the ladies and young girls ride past and see their   
116. Nothing 
117. Everything was great 
118. the wind 
119. Groups to big 
120. We had a major tandem accident on Chapman due to a Mtb cycler changing lines on the downhill Tandems Must have a dedicated starting banch later than the racing tandems but before all the idiots start the race A few years back it was done this way We were in A 
121. niks 
122. nothing comes to mind 
123. The chaos before moving through the gates to the starting chutes  
124. Feedback  record keeping are not always accurate I did the race last year and it did not count for a race without any explanation  
125. The hectic entry to the starting shutes previously this was a lot more accessible This year only had the access on Darling Street and appeared chaotic for most cyclists Many moans and groans were heard 
126.  km race maybe to also finish at Capetown syadium with route adjusymet through Constantia and Houtbay  
127. The water points 
128. the fact that you pay so much and only get a packet of nicknackswhich is not even healthy and a water bottle 
129. At the start when the sun was so badly positioned you could not see any rider infront of you  Was dangerous I know not something you can avoid   
130. Cramps  but the organisation is amazing 
131. none so far 
132. Nothing 
133. This year the funneling of groups at the start was far more disorganized than last year Made for a bit of a mess  
134. The only issue was the start time and the inflexibility to change it I am not sure how my start time was calculated but I was hoping to leave a little earlier  
135. There was not always enough space for rides to get past water points  
136. The ablution facilities where my low point 
137. no water at the finish  only a coke minor issuedifference between my time and your time 
138. Loved it 
139. Zero I love the CTCT  
140. no answer given 
141. The people cheering and the beauitiful landscapes 
142. Nothing really  
143. Toilets too messy at parade starting place  
144. People being aggressive because I was on ebike  
145. I enjoyed everything off the event 
146. It was my second entryI enjoyed every moment  
147. The cut off time I couldnt complete the race Becuase they cut off time was so early especially for the last group 
148. Dislikes was that all water points we only received liquids no snack banana biltonhs etc 
149. Long toilet lines at the start  
150. cape town smelt really bad for the first km or so it was like cycling through a poorly cleaned public toilet 
151. That rhe cut of time is h when we only left the stadium at am this is persons that want to try completing the  but was not given a fair chance  
152. no answer given 
153. Nothing 
154. Nothing  
155. EBikes in normal batches  Some of them should be classed as motorcycles I understand inclusivity but there are some who are ruining it for others and are very very dangerous 
156. camaraderie 
157. Timeous  Access to toilets could be improved 
158. Ebikes are a pain They push from behind often to pass and the inconsistent and unpredictable speeds they do is annoying and sometimes unsafe for cyclists around them Some ebike riders dont have handling skills or understanding of how to ride in bunches to match the speeds they are going 
159. The wind at Cape Point 
160. The expo has deteriorated over the years The stands have not been curated well in order to encourage riders to enjoy the registration process and actually spend money Race organisers I presume are charging too much to exhibit prohibiting certain brands from attending The stands should be more relevant more bike brands more cycle touring companies other races fewer shoe cleaning companies fewer massage equipment sales people   
161. I dont know if Im allowed to say this but Suikerbossie I did not like Suikerbossie Will I do it again definitely 
162. The beggars next to the road 
163. many cyclists posing a threat to ones safety 
164. START ZONE 
165. Time keeping and road closure on time 
166. The starting groups is a bit big  
167. My bike broke down and was not repairable  I was given no help by any marshals or police that I asked and I asked many  I was completely stranded and was told to walk back to Cape Town Totally unaccep 
168. no answer given 
169. no answer given 
170. no answer given 
171. Obscure start timing position very confusingA bit windyGoody bag a bit skimpySome Expo clothing quality not great 
172. Obscure start timing position very confusingA bit windyGoody bag a bit skimpySome Expo clothing quality not great 
173. The wind Ha Ha 
174. Lack of shaded area after the finish 
175. I would like to do it on the Saterday for travel purposes  
176. The negativity of riders being rude to new riders along the road Instead of giving the people positive help along the road they would be rude and use foul language  
177. We no nothing at all to complain about 
178. The scenery closed roads spectators refreshing stands 
179. The stupid Ebike minimum time rule  
180. no answer given 
181. no answer given 
182. that last uphill LOL  nah just joking there is nothing i did not love 
183. no answer given 
184. All good 
185. E bikes can enjoy the race 
186. no answer given 
187. I did not like that my seeding was so late you should know that it was a very hot race day and that people starting off late should be spread wet like similar to events like the  Ride Joburg race and Race To The Sun  this helps you cool down a bit  and if they chose so The other thing I did not like was the attitude at the top of Chappies water point asking for more than once cold drink  the sugar helps put electrolytes back but after having to ask in a condescending manner would they give me a second cold drink  
188. The South Easter 
189. I had a heart attack and double bypass surgery so Im forced to ride an ebike to keep my heart rate low I received a few emails from yourselves about ebikes written in capital letters making me feel like a criminal because I ride an ebike It really destroyed the race for me I felt like I was on outcast  
190. no answer given 
191. the bathrooms were disgusting and in horrendous condition  
192. Yes a lot 
193. I mean we can all nitpick at things but really cant fault much  
194. The wind  No nothing was bad 
195. Nothing 
196. everything was excellent 
197. Missed the very lively feeding station on Suikerbossie 
198. I must say the goody bag was rather skimpy compared to the ones we received in the pastBesides that there was a lot of bad sportmanship amoungst the non ebike riders I did the event on my mtb ebike The fact that I work for a living and spend my weekends with my family makes it hard to excersice that often This is where the ebike makes it a possible enjoyable ride to do There was a lot of bad comments from the guys on normal bikes that really irritated me towards the end 
199. I think there could go more into the registration packs 
